We've now seen the basics of microservices.
We've learned a little bit about Docker, Kubernetes Scaffold, and now it's time to take all this knowledge
and kick off our next big project.
This next project is going to be significantly larger, significantly larger than the one we just worked
on.
Before we get started on, however, I want to go over a couple of big notes or important things we
learned about this first application.
So a couple of different lessons here.
The first thing I want to reflect on is that the big challenge that we really ran into around all this
microservices stuff was handling data that truly was the biggest challenge in this first application.
It's only going to get worse as we start to work with some more complicated data model.
So if we have anything beyond, say, just a blog in comments we're working with, that data between
multiple different services is going to start to become even more challenging.
We learned that there are more than one way to share data between services.
We spoke about the differences between sync and async communication.
There really is a sliding scale on async versus async communication.
So we can have fully sync, we can have fully async.
We can also have a combination of the two.
You and I are going to focus on async communication between services on this course.
The reason for this and the reason we're doing this over sync communication is that, to be honest with
you, sync communication is generally a little bit easier or possibly I should say, a lot easier to
implement, even though it kind of has some downsides in an actual production environment.
Because it is easy.
I figured, Hey, it's a course, let's focus on how to do the hard things right.
You want to have a guide or someone to tell you some things to be aware of when you're going through
hard stuff.
And so I want to show you hard stuff.
I don't want to show you the easy stuff.
Async communication focuses on communicating changes to our data whenever something happens using events.
So we take these events which can be as we saw, a object can be an array, a string, a number, any
message we can possibly imagine.
We take these events and we send them to an event bus.
If it is then up to that event bus to take that event and send it around to all the different services
inside of our application.
And each of those different services can react that event in some way.
One of the really nice things about async communication is that every service generally ends up being
a rather self-sufficient.
Now, of course, as I mentioned multiple times, no, these things are not truly self sufficient because
they are relying upon events coming in from outside sources.
But if any other service starts to go down, we can generally still have the rest of our application
work because we do not have strict dependencies between our different services.
We also learned a little bit about Docker.
We saw that it's really easy to use Docker to package up all these services.
And we also saw that Kubernetes.
Yeah, it was definitely a pain to set up.
Going through the basics of Pod's deployment services.
I'm sure through some of that you were saying, Stephen, why are we doing this?
And I know that really was a slog to get through, but at the end of the day, Kubernetes is going to
make it a lot easier to deploy our microservices and scale them up over time as well.
Without a doubt, Kubernetes is the way to go, even if it is a little bit of a pain to get started
with.
All right.
So these were some of our big lessons, some big things that we said, okay, hey, this is something
to pay attention to.
But in addition to lessons, we also had some really big pains.
There was a lot of kind of painful things we had to deal with as we were working through this first
application.
So I want to focus on some of these different painful things.
I want to take a look at some solutions that we're going to start to implement in this next application.
Now, this is not an exhaustive list right here.
There are some other things that were pains beyond what I'm just saying.
I'm really just highlighting some of the big ticket items because these are going to be items that we're
going to handle much differently in the second application.
So first off, we technically had a decent amount of duplicated code.
I kind of not really I guess, but we had a lot of very similar looking code in each of our services.
We had all the same kind of express setup, all the same looking root handlers.
We ended up having kind of duplicated logic around sending down posts or comments between query and
the post service incumbent services.
Without a doubt there was some amount of duplicated code.
Next up, it was definitely a very challenging to picture the flow of events between all these different
services.
So at some point in time, I showed you some diagrams to introduce that idea of the moderation service,
and I laid out three different options for how to handle some events flowing between each one.
And I'll be honest with you, when I was putting those videos together, even I was watching these videos
and saying, wait, what, how how is this stuff going on?
Why is this happening?
Why is what?
And so I think that understanding the flow of events between these services and understanding when events
get dispatched is kind of challenging.
And so I think that we need to figure out a better way to handle that.
It was also really challenging to remember what properties and event should have.
So we were working between multiple different projects and we would have inside of one project we would
emit an event and then we would attempt to receive that in another service.
So we were essentially sharing information across a boundary and we didn't have any good documentation
in place or anything like that to understand the different properties or even the names of those properties
or even the types of data that those properties were referring to in our events.
And so it was incredibly easy to make a typo.
We might emit an event in one service and give it a property with the name of like username and then
maybe another service.
We tried to receive that event and accidentally wrote out a property name in there off the incoming
event referencing like name instead of username.
That a doubt remembering those properties are really challenging, even if it doesn't really seem so
right now.
Finally when not finally we got a couple more on here, but the next one, it was kind of hard to test
some of these different event flows.
So for example, that moderation thing, to test out moderation, we first had to create a post.
We then had to create a comment.
We had to then refresh the page.
We then had to go through the other possibilities.
So a comment with Orange in the comments without orange, maybe a different spelling of orange, maybe
orange capitalized.
There were some event flows where maybe it wasn't really hard, but it was certainly tedious to test
out the event flows.
So we had to refresh multiple times.
We had to think about all these different edge cases, all that kind of stuff.
I'm going to say that was kind of painful.
Now, two other things that you might have encountered.
You might have had your computer start to get kind of laggy while running Kubernetes and Scaffold and
maybe having your browser open and all this other stuff.
So you might be at a point right now where you're saying, Gee, am I going to be able to develop all
these services locally, like on my own machine?
And then finally, something that I mentioned very briefly during this first application, there is
kind of an interesting case if you really start to think through the flow of events inside of our application.
In other words, looking at this point right here, what if someone created a comment after editing
five others and then editing another post and then while at the same time creating a post?
And I just want you to imagine that maybe there is some kind of like magic series of events where if
we emitted some series of events very quickly inside of our application, we might actually be able
to break our data model, for example, maybe some events would flow around our application out of order.
Imagine the case in which maybe someone created a post and then simultaneously, like in the same microsecond
created a comment attached to that post.
We were making some really big assumptions inside this application about the order of events flowing
around.
What would happen if someone created a post and a comment associated with that at the same time?
And then maybe for some reason the comment creation event showed up inside of our comment service before
post creation.
Our comment service was assuming that there was always going to be a post inside of its little in-memory
data structure to associate an incoming comment with.
So if we for some reason received a comment creation event before a post creation, our entire application
would break.
And so this note right here is meant to say what if there is some really weird series of events while
some really crazy scenario is going on that might potentially break our application?
How do we figure those things out?
How do we write code to deal with them?
That's something that I kind of alluded to, but we never really answered.
So for all these painful things, you got a solution.
Before I show you the solutions, however, just a quick note.
For this next project we're going to work on.
We're going to make some really big changes to our development process to accommodate some of these
different painful things.
And I kind of suspect that some people watching this course might really dislike some of the decisions
or changes that we're going to make to our development process.
You might not like them.
You might totally disagree with what we're about to do.
You might say, Oh, Steven, I don't want to do that.
That sounds like a pain.
And I got to be honest with you, I would not be making these changes to our development process if
I did not really, really think that this was the right way to build microservices.
Seriously, this next project, we're really not cutting a lot of corners.
We're cutting a couple of corners, I'll be honest with you.
And I'm going to very much point out where those corners are, but we're really not going to be cutting
a lot of corners.
And I want to so I want to show you the right way to do it, as many things as possible.
So then mind, here's how we're going to solve these problems.
Here's what we're going to do.
And I know this is a long video, so I'm going to kind of wrap this up rather quickly.
All right.
So first off, let's duplicate a code to solve this.
Let's zoom in over here on the right hand side.
We are going to build a central library as a module and we're going to throw in a ton of code into that
library that we're going to share between all of our different services.
So we are going to be building out a collection of different express servers for this next application.
And a lot of these express applications are going to have a lot of common code inside them rather than
duplicating that code all over the place.
We're going to build one central library.
We're going to throw in a lot of express related code, a lot of other associated code as well.
And then we're going to install that library inside of all of our services.
So this is going to be really great because we're going to have a lot of fantastic code reuse.
The downside to this, however, is that we might end up having to work on that library at the very
start of this project.
And so there will be some scenarios where I'm going to tell you, Oh yeah, we need a middleware to
handle authentication, and so it should look like this.
And you might say, Wait, how do you know it should look like this?
Stephen or where are we going to use this middleware?
And you're just going to have to trust me and understand we're going to use this somewhere.
We're just writing this code up front so we have it and we don't have to worry about this really tedious,
express related stuff when we're trying to really focus on handling data and microservices.
Next up, kind of hard to picture the flow of events between these different services.
So our solution or the solution I wrote right here doesn't quite answer this or solve it.
But suffice it to say, we're going to define all of our events in this shared library so we can have
a very precise definition of what all these different events are.
We're going to make sure that all the very all the different properties are very crystal clear in their
spelling, their type, all that kind of stuff.
And this is going to go a long way to helping us understand what different events we have going between
our services and possibly in some cases, the order in which they're flowing around as well.
Next up, speaking of hard to remember, properties moving forward.
And this is the first item where I think you might say, wait, what?
We're doing this.
Yeah, we're going to start to write everything in TypeScript.
If you don't know TypeScript, that's entirely possible.
It is.
Okay.
At the very end of this course, I have another appendix that's going to give you an overview of TypeScript,
certainly more than enough to get through the rest of this course.
And to be honest with you, I think that possibly a lot of the value in this course is going to be our
kind of around learning TypeScript and applying it in a kind of microservices sort of world, because
we're going to write some extremely reusable and flexible code here.
I seriously have put in a tremendous amount of time on really polishing the code quality for this second
application.
So you might be unhappy that we're using TypeScript on the second half of this course, but again,
I can't say enough.
It really is the right way to do this.
And I have a couple more things I want to say about that.
But again, long video, so I'm just going to keep going.
Next up, it was really hard to test some event flows.
I mean, maybe not really hard for this application, but trust me for this next one, it is going to
be really hard to test the flows.
There's going to be very precise series of steps we have to go through in the browser.
That's going to be kind of a nightmare, kind of annoying to have to do.
And having to test this stuff manually, it only goes so far.
So moving forward, we're going to start to write tests for a lot of the functionality we've put together,
really around a lot of the data and around some of the different express things, but not for some of
the more common middleware.
So we're going to put together.
So we're not going to go totally overboard with tests, but we're going to write a lot of tests moving
forward as opposed to immediately trying to just click around stuff in the browser to test.
Next up, if your machine is starting to get laggy running Kubernetes, I am going to show you fairly
briefly how to run a Kubernetes cluster in the cloud in a sort of development environment.
So this is not going to be a production style cluster.
This is going to be a cluster specifically intended to allow you to do development on a large Kubernetes
cluster.
In the case that you might be running too many services to really execute on your own local machine.
So you can kind of imagine that if you're working at a company that has dozens of different microservices,
you might need to have some kind of testing or development environment that works with all those different
services.
And maybe a dozen or two dozen, three dozen services is too much to run on some old laptop.
And so the way we solve that is by creating a cluster in the cloud, a development style cluster, and
then we're going to use this same kind of scaffold workflow with that remote cluster.
So the real goal of all this or this line item right here is to solve any performance issues that you
might have.
Now, I do want you to know right away, chances are if you are going to create a development cluster
in the cloud, very likely that you'll end up having to pay money for it.
You might fit underneath the free tier or it might be entirely free, but it is very much possible that
you will have to spend money.
Just want throw that out there right now.
Then finally handling this really crazy data stuff where who knows, if we click on this and then create
some other resource and then edit it at the exact same instant.
Again, that's something we kind of touched on, but we didn't really have any good solution for it.
Really no solution whatsoever.
We had nothing to mitigate problems like that.
So that's going to be a huge focus in this next application.
We're going to have unending focus on data consistency and making sure that if events come into our
application in some out of order, out of sequence or who knows what, we are going to have some code
or some idea of how to deal with that.
Okay.
So again, if you are not happy about TypeScript, if you are not happy about writing tests, I apologize
to some degree.
But again, I would not be saying, yeah, we got to use TypeScript in tests if I did not really think
it was the right way to do this.
And again, I've got some more notes or thoughts on TypeScript in test with microservices, but too
much for an already long video.
So we're going to call this good right now.
We're going to take a pause right here.
We're going to come back the next video and we're going to start to take a look at a couple of mock
ups for the next application.
We're going to start and we're going to start to think about the overall architecture of it as well.